monitoring/README.md, before:

# Whisper Monitoring Stack

Remote monitoring for the Whisper Transcription Pipeline running on Windows, accessed via SSH tunnel from your Mac.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         WINDOWS SERVER                                   │
│                                                                          │
│   ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐   │
│   │  FastAPI    │  │   Flower    │  │  Postgres   │  │   Redis     │   │
│   │   :8000     │  │   :5555     │  │  Exporter   │  │  Exporter   │   │
│   │  /metrics   │  │  /metrics   │  │   :9187     │  │   :9121     │   │
│   └──────┬──────┘  └──────┬──────┘  └──────┬──────┘  └──────┬──────┘   │
│          │                │                │                │          │
│          └────────────────┴────────────────┴────────────────┘          │
│                                    │                                    │
│                              localhost only                             │
│                                    │                                    │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                             │
│                             │   OpenSSH   │                             │
│                             │    :22      │                             │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                             │
└────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┘
                                     │
                              SSH Tunnel
                                     │
┌────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┐
│                             YOUR MAC                                     │
│                                    │                                     │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                             │
│                             │   tunnel.sh │                             │
│                             │  (SSH -L)   │                             │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                             │
│                                    │                                     │
│          ┌─────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────┐          │
│          │                                                    │          │
│   ┌──────┴──────┐                                     ┌───────┴───────┐ │
│   │ Prometheus  │─────────────────────────────────────│   Grafana     │ │
│   │   :9090     │                                     │    :3000      │ │
│   │             │        scrapes via tunnel           │               │ │
│   └─────────────┘                                     └───────────────┘ │
│                                                                          │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Start the SSH Tunnel

```bash
cd monitoring
./tunnel.sh your-username@windows-server-ip
```

Keep this terminal open - the tunnel needs to stay connected.

### 2. Start Monitoring Stack

In a new terminal:

```bash
cd monitoring
docker compose up -d
```

### 3. Access Dashboards

- **Grafana**: http://localhost:3000 (admin/admin)
- **Prometheus**: http://localhost:9090
- **Flower** (direct): http://localhost:5555

## What's Monitored

| Component | Metrics | Port |
|-----------|---------|------|
| FastAPI API | Request rate, latency, error rates | 8000 |
| Celery Workers | Task queue, active tasks, failures | 5555 |
| PostgreSQL | Connections, query performance | 9187 |
| Redis | Memory usage, commands, hit ratio | 9121 |

## Files

```
monitoring/
├── docker-compose.yml          # Prometheus + Grafana
├── prometheus.yml              # Scrape configuration
├── tunnel.sh                   # SSH tunnel helper script
├── README.md                   # This file
└── provisioning/
    ├── datasources/
    │   └── datasource.yml      # Auto-configure Prometheus datasource
    └── dashboards/
        ├── dashboard.yml       # Dashboard provisioning config
        └── whisper-overview.json  # Pre-built overview dashboard
```

## Troubleshooting

### Can't connect to metrics endpoints

1. Check if the SSH tunnel is still running
2. Verify you can reach the Windows server: `ssh user@windows-server`
3. On Windows, verify services are running: `docker ps`

### No data in Grafana

1. Check Prometheus targets: http://localhost:9090/targets
2. All targets should show "UP" status
3. If "DOWN", the tunnel may have disconnected

### Tunnel keeps disconnecting

Use autossh for automatic reconnection:

```bash
# Install autossh
brew install autossh

# Use autossh instead of ssh
autossh -M 0 -N \
    -L 8000:localhost:8000 \
    -L 5555:localhost:5555 \
    -L 9187:localhost:9187 \
    -L 9121:localhost:9121 \
    user@windows-server
```

### Reset Grafana password

```bash
docker compose exec grafana grafana-cli admin reset-admin-password newpassword
```

## Adding Custom Dashboards

1. Create dashboards in Grafana UI
2. Export as JSON (Share → Export → Save to file)
3. Save to `provisioning/dashboards/`
4. Restart Grafana: `docker compose restart grafana`

Commit message:

Enhance local development setup and task management
- Added instructions for creating and using a Python virtual environment (venv) in AGENTS.md.
- Updated docker-compose.yml to improve health check for the API and added environment variables for Celery.
- Enhanced Makefile with new targets for venv management and testing.
- Refactored task management in app/worker to utilize a periodic task for enqueuing recordings, improving reliability.
- Updated tests to reflect changes in task queuing logic and removed unnecessary mocks.
- Improved monitoring documentation to clarify Flower and Celery integration.

monitoring/README.md, after:

# Whisper Monitoring Stack

Remote monitoring for the Whisper Transcription Pipeline running on Windows, accessed via SSH tunnel from your Mac.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         WINDOWS SERVER                                   │
│                                                                          │
│   ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐   │
│   │  FastAPI    │  │   Flower    │  │  Postgres   │  │   Redis     │   │
│   │   :8000     │  │   :5555     │  │  Exporter   │  │  Exporter   │   │
│   │  /metrics   │  │  /metrics   │  │   :9187     │  │   :9121     │   │
│   └──────┬──────┘  └──────┬──────┘  └──────┬──────┘  └──────┬──────┘   │
│          │                │                │                │          │
│          └────────────────┴────────────────┴────────────────┘          │
│                                    │                                    │
│                              localhost only                             │
│                                    │                                    │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                             │
│                             │   OpenSSH   │                             │
│                             │    :22      │                             │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                             │
└────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┘
                                     │
                              SSH Tunnel
                                     │
┌────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┐
│                             YOUR MAC                                     │
│                                    │                                     │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                             │
│                             │   tunnel.sh │                             │
│                             │  (SSH -L)   │                             │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                             │
│                                    │                                     │
│          ┌─────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────┐          │
│          │                                                    │          │
│   ┌──────┴──────┐                                     ┌───────┴───────┐ │
│   │ Prometheus  │─────────────────────────────────────│   Grafana     │ │
│   │   :9090     │                                     │    :3000      │ │
│   │             │        scrapes via tunnel           │               │ │
│   └─────────────┘                                     └───────────────┘ │
│                                                                          │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Start the SSH Tunnel

```bash
cd monitoring
./tunnel.sh your-username@windows-server-ip
```

Keep this terminal open - the tunnel needs to stay connected.

### 2. Start Monitoring Stack

In a new terminal:

```bash
cd monitoring
docker compose up -d
```

### 3. Access Dashboards

- **Grafana**: http://localhost:3000 (admin/admin)
- **Prometheus**: http://localhost:9090
- **Flower** (direct): http://localhost:5555

## What's Monitored

| Component | Metrics | Port |
|-----------|---------|------|
| FastAPI API | Request rate, latency, error rates | 8000 |
| Celery Workers | Task queue, active tasks, failures | 5555 |
| PostgreSQL | Connections, query performance | 9187 |
| Redis | Memory usage, commands, hit ratio | 9121 |

## Files

```
monitoring/
├── docker-compose.yml          # Prometheus + Grafana
├── prometheus.yml              # Scrape configuration
├── tunnel.sh                   # SSH tunnel helper script
├── README.md                   # This file
└── provisioning/
    ├── datasources/
    │   └── datasource.yml      # Auto-configure Prometheus datasource
    └── dashboards/
        ├── dashboard.yml       # Dashboard provisioning config
        └── whisper-overview.json  # Pre-built overview dashboard
```

## Troubleshooting

### Flower / Celery panels show "No data" in Grafana

The path is **Flower (Windows) → SSH tunnel → Prometheus (Mac) → Grafana**. If any step fails, Celery/Flower panels will be empty.

1. **Tunnel must be running**  
   Prometheus scrapes `host.docker.internal:5555`, which is your Mac’s port 5555. That port only has data when the tunnel is up:
   ```bash
   cd monitoring && ./tunnel.sh user@windows-server-ip
   ```
   Keep this terminal open.

2. **Check Prometheus scrape status**  
   Open http://localhost:9090/targets and find the **flower** job. It should be **UP**. If it’s **DOWN**:
   - Restart the tunnel, wait 30–60 seconds, then refresh Targets.
   - On the Mac, test Flower through the tunnel: `curl -s http://localhost:5555/metrics | head -5`

3. **Check datasource in Grafana**  
   In the dashboard, use the **Data source** dropdown (top of the page) and ensure **Prometheus** is selected. The provisioned datasource has UID `prometheus` and should be the default.

4. **If Flower is UP but panels are still empty**  
   In Prometheus (http://localhost:9090), go to Graph and run: `flower_events_total`. If no results, Flower may not be sending task events (Celery worker needs `-E` / task events enabled). Our worker images enable events by default.

### Can't connect to metrics endpoints

1. Check if the SSH tunnel is still running
2. Verify you can reach the Windows server: `ssh user@windows-server`
3. On Windows, verify services are running: `docker ps`

### No data in Grafana (other panels)

1. Check Prometheus targets: http://localhost:9090/targets
2. All targets should show "UP" status
3. If "DOWN", the tunnel may have disconnected

### Tunnel keeps disconnecting

Use autossh for automatic reconnection:

```bash
# Install autossh
brew install autossh

# Use autossh instead of ssh
autossh -M 0 -N \
    -L 8000:localhost:8000 \
    -L 5555:localhost:5555 \
    -L 9187:localhost:9187 \
    -L 9121:localhost:9121 \
    user@windows-server
```

### Reset Grafana password

```bash
docker compose exec grafana grafana-cli admin reset-admin-password newpassword
```

## Adding Custom Dashboards

1. Create dashboards in Grafana UI
2. Export as JSON (Share → Export → Save to file)
3. Save to `provisioning/dashboards/`
4. Restart Grafana: `docker compose restart grafana`
