docs/monitoring.md, before:

# Monitoring

Remote monitoring for the Whisper Transcription Pipeline. The monitoring stack runs on your Mac and connects to the Windows server via SSH tunnel, ensuring zero performance impact on transcription workloads.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                            WINDOWS SERVER (Production)                       │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                              │
│   ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐     │
│   │                     DOCKER CONTAINERS                              │     │
│   │                                                                    │     │
│   │  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐          │     │
│   │  │   API    │  │  Worker  │  │ Postgres │  │  Redis   │          │     │
│   │  │  :8000   │  │          │  │  :5432   │  │  :6379   │          │     │
│   │  └────┬─────┘  └──────────┘  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘          │     │
│   │       │                           │             │                 │     │
│   │       │ /metrics                  │             │                 │     │
│   │       ▼                           ▼             ▼                 │     │
│   │  ┌──────────┐              ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐            │     │
│   │  │  Flower  │              │ Postgres │  │  Redis   │            │     │
│   │  │  :5555   │              │ Exporter │  │ Exporter │            │     │
│   │  │ /metrics │              │  :9187   │  │  :9121   │            │     │
│   │  └──────────┘              └──────────┘  └──────────┘            │     │
│   │                                                                    │     │
│   │   Resource Impact: ~50MB RAM, <1% CPU (lightweight exporters)     │     │
│   └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘     │
│                                                                              │
│                         All ports bound to 127.0.0.1                         │
│                                    │                                         │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                                  │
│                             │   OpenSSH   │◀─── Firewall allows port 22      │
│                             │    :22      │                                  │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                                  │
└────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                     │
                              SSH Tunnel
                           (encrypted connection)
                                     │
┌────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                             YOUR MAC (Monitoring)                            │
├────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                    │                                         │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                                  │
│                             │  tunnel.sh  │                                  │
│                             │   SSH -L    │                                  │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                                  │
│                                    │                                         │
│          ┌────── localhost:8000 ───┼─── localhost:5555 ──────┐              │
│          │       localhost:9187 ───┼─── localhost:9121       │              │
│          │                         │                         │              │
│          ▼                         ▼                         ▼              │
│   ┌─────────────┐           ┌─────────────┐          ┌─────────────┐        │
│   │ Prometheus  │──────────▶│   Grafana   │          │   Flower    │        │
│   │   :9090     │           │    :3000    │          │    :5555    │        │
│   │             │           │             │          │   (direct)  │        │
│   │ 90-day      │           │ Dashboards  │          │  Celery UI  │        │
│   │ retention   │           │ & Alerts    │          │             │        │
│   └─────────────┘           └─────────────┘          └─────────────┘        │
│                                                                              │
│                    No impact on Windows server performance                   │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Components

### On Windows Server (Lightweight)

| Component | Image | Purpose | Resource Impact |
|-----------|-------|---------|-----------------|
| **Flower** | `mher/flower:2.0` | Celery monitoring UI and Prometheus metrics | ~30MB RAM |
| **postgres-exporter** | `prometheuscommunity/postgres-exporter` | PostgreSQL metrics | ~10MB RAM |
| **redis-exporter** | `oliver006/redis_exporter` | Redis metrics | ~10MB RAM |
| **OpenSSH Server** | Windows built-in | Secure tunnel endpoint | Negligible |

### On Your Mac (Full Stack)

| Component | Image | Purpose |
|-----------|-------|---------|
| **Prometheus** | `prom/prometheus:v2.48.0` | Metrics collection and storage (90-day retention) |
| **Grafana** | `grafana/grafana:10.2.0` | Visualization, dashboards, alerting |

## Metrics Available

### API Metrics (`/metrics`)

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `http_requests_total` | Total HTTP requests by method, endpoint, status |
| `http_request_duration_seconds` | Request latency histogram |
| `http_requests_in_progress` | Currently active requests |

### Celery/Flower Metrics

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `flower_events_total{type="task-received"}` | Tasks received |
| `flower_events_total{type="task-succeeded"}` | Tasks completed successfully |
| `flower_events_total{type="task-failed"}` | Tasks failed |
| `flower_worker_online` | Number of online workers |

### PostgreSQL Metrics

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `pg_stat_activity_count` | Active database connections |
| `pg_database_size_bytes` | Database size |
| `pg_stat_user_tables_n_live_tup` | Row counts per table |
| `pg_stat_user_tables_seq_scan` | Sequential scans (index health) |

### Redis Metrics

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `redis_memory_used_bytes` | Current memory usage |
| `redis_connected_clients` | Connected client count |
| `redis_commands_processed_total` | Total commands processed |
| `redis_keyspace_hits_total` | Cache hit count |
| `redis_keyspace_misses_total` | Cache miss count |

## Quick Start

### 1. Deploy to Windows

The monitoring exporters are automatically deployed with the main application:

```bash
cd ansible
./run-playbook.sh deploy.yaml
```

This will:
- Install OpenSSH Server on Windows
- Open firewall port 22 for SSH
- Deploy Flower and metric exporters

### 2. Start SSH Tunnel (on Mac)

```bash
cd monitoring
./tunnel.sh your-username@windows-server-ip
```

Leave this terminal open. The tunnel forwards ports:
- 8000 → FastAPI + metrics
- 5555 → Flower
- 9187 → PostgreSQL exporter
- 9121 → Redis exporter

### 3. Start Monitoring Stack (on Mac)

```bash
cd monitoring
docker compose up -d
```

### 4. Access Dashboards

| Service | URL | Credentials |
|---------|-----|-------------|
| Grafana | http://localhost:3000 | admin / admin |
| Prometheus | http://localhost:9090 | - |
| Flower | http://localhost:5555 | admin / admin |

## Pre-Built Dashboard

A "Whisper Pipeline Overview" dashboard is automatically provisioned with:

- **Pending Tasks** - Current queue depth
- **Tasks Completed** - Total successful transcriptions
- **Tasks Failed** - Error count
- **Workers Online** - Active Celery workers
- **API Request Rate** - Requests per second
- **API Response Time** - 95th percentile latency
- **Redis Memory** - Broker memory usage
- **PostgreSQL Connections** - Active DB connections

## Alerts (Optional)

Example Grafana alert rules you can add:

```yaml
# High queue depth
- alert: HighQueueDepth
  expr: (flower_events_total{type="task-received"} - flower_events_total{type="task-succeeded"} - flower_events_total{type="task-failed"}) > 50
  for: 10m
  labels:
    severity: warning
  annotations:
    summary: "Task queue depth is high"

# No workers online
- alert: NoWorkersOnline
  expr: flower_worker_online == 0
  for: 5m
  labels:
    severity: critical
  annotations:
    summary: "No Celery workers are online"

# High API error rate
- alert: HighAPIErrorRate
  expr: rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5.."}[5m]) / rate(http_requests_total[5m]) > 0.1
  for: 5m
  labels:
    severity: warning
  annotations:
    summary: "API error rate is above 10%"
```

## Troubleshooting

### SSH Connection Refused

1. Verify OpenSSH Server is running on Windows:
   ```powershell
   Get-Service sshd
   ```

2. Check Windows Firewall:
   ```powershell
   Get-NetFirewallRule -Name "OpenSSH-Server-In-TCP"
   ```

3. Test SSH directly:
   ```bash
   ssh user@windows-server
   ```

### Prometheus Targets Show "DOWN"

1. Check if tunnel is connected:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:8000/metrics
   ```

2. If connection refused, restart the tunnel

3. Verify containers are running on Windows:
   ```powershell
   docker ps
   ```

### No Metrics in Grafana

1. Check Prometheus targets: http://localhost:9090/targets
2. Verify datasource configuration in Grafana
3. Check time range - default is "Last 1 hour"

**Flower/Celery panels only:** Data flows Flower (Windows) → tunnel → Prometheus → Grafana. If the SSH tunnel is not running, the `flower` target will be DOWN and Celery panels will show no data. Start the tunnel first (`make tunnel` or `monitoring/tunnel.sh`), then ensure the **flower** job is UP in http://localhost:9090/targets. In the dashboard, use the **Data source** dropdown and select **Prometheus**.

### Flower: "Inspect method failed" / "Unknown worker"

Flower discovers workers by sending **inspect** commands over the broker. In Docker, workers can be slow to respond, so you may see:

- `Inspect method active_queues failed`, `registered failed`, `stats failed`, etc.
- **Registered tasks** showing only built-in Celery tasks (not `process_recording` / `enqueue_pending_recordings`) if workers weren’t ready at Flower startup.
- **404 Unknown worker 'celery@...'** when opening a worker link, because Flower never received that worker’s inspect response.

The Flower container is still **working**: it’s connected to Redis and can show the `/metrics` endpoint and task events. To improve worker discovery:

1. **Start Flower after the worker**  
   `docker-compose.yml` makes Flower depend on the worker (`depends_on: worker`), so the worker starts first.

2. **Give workers time to respond**  
   `FLOWER_INSPECT_TIMEOUT=10000` (10 seconds) is set so Flower waits longer for inspect replies in Docker.

After a redeploy, restart Flower so it runs inspect again once the worker is up:  
`docker compose restart flower`. If the worker is under heavy load, inspect can still time out; the UI and `/metrics` will still work, but the Workers page may be empty or show 404 for a worker link until the next successful inspect.

### Tunnel Keeps Disconnecting

Install and use `autossh` for automatic reconnection:

```bash
# Install
brew install autossh

# Run with auto-reconnect
autossh -M 0 -o "ServerAliveInterval 30" -o "ServerAliveCountMax 3" -N \
    -L 8000:localhost:8000 \
    -L 5555:localhost:5555 \
    -L 9187:localhost:9187 \
    -L 9121:localhost:9121 \
    user@windows-server
```

## Security Notes

1. **SSH Keys**: For unattended operation, set up SSH key authentication instead of passwords
2. **Firewall**: Only port 22 is exposed on Windows; all other ports remain localhost-only
3. **Grafana**: Change the default password after first login
4. **Flower**: Uses basic auth configured via `FLOWER_AUTH` environment variable

## File Locations

| Location | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `monitoring/` | Mac-side monitoring stack |
| `monitoring/prometheus.yml` | Prometheus scrape configuration |
| `monitoring/provisioning/` | Grafana auto-provisioning |
| `docker-compose.yml` | Windows-side exporters (main compose) |

Commit message:

Enhance transcription process with segment tracking and logging improvements
- Added `processing_segments_count` to the `Recording` model to track the number of segments processed during transcription.
- Updated the transcription workflow to include a progress callback, logging segment progress at intervals.
- Enhanced API schemas to expose `processing_segments_count` in responses for both recording detail and list endpoints.
- Improved worker logs to provide more informative messages regarding transcription progress and errors.
- Added a new migration to incorporate the `processing_segments_count` column in the database.
- Updated documentation to reflect changes in monitoring and debugging processes related to segment tracking.
- Added unit and integration tests to ensure proper functionality of the new features.

docs/monitoring.md, after:

# Monitoring

Remote monitoring for the Whisper Transcription Pipeline. The monitoring stack runs on your Mac and connects to the Windows server via SSH tunnel, ensuring zero performance impact on transcription workloads.

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                            WINDOWS SERVER (Production)                       │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                              │
│   ┌───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐     │
│   │                     DOCKER CONTAINERS                              │     │
│   │                                                                    │     │
│   │  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐          │     │
│   │  │   API    │  │  Worker  │  │ Postgres │  │  Redis   │          │     │
│   │  │  :8000   │  │          │  │  :5432   │  │  :6379   │          │     │
│   │  └────┬─────┘  └──────────┘  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘          │     │
│   │       │                           │             │                 │     │
│   │       │ /metrics                  │             │                 │     │
│   │       ▼                           ▼             ▼                 │     │
│   │  ┌──────────┐              ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐            │     │
│   │  │  Flower  │              │ Postgres │  │  Redis   │            │     │
│   │  │  :5555   │              │ Exporter │  │ Exporter │            │     │
│   │  │ /metrics │              │  :9187   │  │  :9121   │            │     │
│   │  └──────────┘              └──────────┘  └──────────┘            │     │
│   │                                                                    │     │
│   │   Resource Impact: ~50MB RAM, <1% CPU (lightweight exporters)     │     │
│   └───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘     │
│                                                                              │
│                         All ports bound to 127.0.0.1                         │
│                                    │                                         │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                                  │
│                             │   OpenSSH   │◀─── Firewall allows port 22      │
│                             │    :22      │                                  │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                                  │
└────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                     │
                              SSH Tunnel
                           (encrypted connection)
                                     │
┌────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                             YOUR MAC (Monitoring)                            │
├────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                    │                                         │
│                             ┌──────┴──────┐                                  │
│                             │  tunnel.sh  │                                  │
│                             │   SSH -L    │                                  │
│                             └──────┬──────┘                                  │
│                                    │                                         │
│          ┌────── localhost:8000 ───┼─── localhost:5555 ──────┐              │
│          │       localhost:9187 ───┼─── localhost:9121       │              │
│          │                         │                         │              │
│          ▼                         ▼                         ▼              │
│   ┌─────────────┐           ┌─────────────┐          ┌─────────────┐        │
│   │ Prometheus  │──────────▶│   Grafana   │          │   Flower    │        │
│   │   :9090     │           │    :3000    │          │    :5555    │        │
│   │             │           │             │          │   (direct)  │        │
│   │ 90-day      │           │ Dashboards  │          │  Celery UI  │        │
│   │ retention   │           │ & Alerts    │          │             │        │
│   └─────────────┘           └─────────────┘          └─────────────┘        │
│                                                                              │
│                    No impact on Windows server performance                   │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Components

### On Windows Server (Lightweight)

| Component | Image | Purpose | Resource Impact |
|-----------|-------|---------|-----------------|
| **Flower** | `mher/flower:2.0` | Celery monitoring UI and Prometheus metrics | ~30MB RAM |
| **postgres-exporter** | `prometheuscommunity/postgres-exporter` | PostgreSQL metrics | ~10MB RAM |
| **redis-exporter** | `oliver006/redis_exporter` | Redis metrics | ~10MB RAM |
| **OpenSSH Server** | Windows built-in | Secure tunnel endpoint | Negligible |

### On Your Mac (Full Stack)

| Component | Image | Purpose |
|-----------|-------|---------|
| **Prometheus** | `prom/prometheus:v2.48.0` | Metrics collection and storage (90-day retention) |
| **Grafana** | `grafana/grafana:10.2.0` | Visualization, dashboards, alerting |

## Metrics Available

### API Metrics (`/metrics`)

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `http_requests_total` | Total HTTP requests by method, endpoint, status |
| `http_request_duration_seconds` | Request latency histogram |
| `http_requests_in_progress` | Currently active requests |

### Celery/Flower Metrics

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `flower_events_total{type="task-received"}` | Tasks received |
| `flower_events_total{type="task-succeeded"}` | Tasks completed successfully |
| `flower_events_total{type="task-failed"}` | Tasks failed |
| `flower_worker_online` | Number of online workers |

### PostgreSQL Metrics

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `pg_stat_activity_count` | Active database connections |
| `pg_database_size_bytes` | Database size |
| `pg_stat_user_tables_n_live_tup` | Row counts per table |
| `pg_stat_user_tables_seq_scan` | Sequential scans (index health) |

### Redis Metrics

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `redis_memory_used_bytes` | Current memory usage |
| `redis_connected_clients` | Connected client count |
| `redis_commands_processed_total` | Total commands processed |
| `redis_keyspace_hits_total` | Cache hit count |
| `redis_keyspace_misses_total` | Cache miss count |

## Quick Start

### 1. Deploy to Windows

The monitoring exporters are automatically deployed with the main application:

```bash
cd ansible
./run-playbook.sh deploy.yaml
```

This will:
- Install OpenSSH Server on Windows
- Open firewall port 22 for SSH
- Deploy Flower and metric exporters

### 2. Start SSH Tunnel (on Mac)

```bash
cd monitoring
./tunnel.sh your-username@windows-server-ip
```

Leave this terminal open. The tunnel forwards ports:
- 8000 → FastAPI + metrics
- 5555 → Flower
- 9187 → PostgreSQL exporter
- 9121 → Redis exporter

### 3. Start Monitoring Stack (on Mac)

```bash
cd monitoring
docker compose up -d
```

### 4. Access Dashboards

| Service | URL | Credentials |
|---------|-----|-------------|
| Grafana | http://localhost:3000 | admin / admin |
| Prometheus | http://localhost:9090 | - |
| Flower | http://localhost:5555 | admin / admin |

## Pre-Built Dashboard

A "Whisper Pipeline Overview" dashboard is automatically provisioned with:

- **Pending Tasks** - Queue depth (`received - succeeded - failed`). Clamped to ≥ 0; after Flower or worker restarts the raw value can briefly go negative (counters reset, completed tasks still reported), so the dashboard shows 0 in that case.
- **Tasks Completed** - Total successful transcriptions
- **Tasks Failed** - Error count
- **Workers Online** - Active Celery workers
- **API Request Rate** - Requests per second
- **API Response Time** - 95th percentile latency
- **Redis Memory** - Broker memory usage
- **PostgreSQL Connections** - Active DB connections

## Alerts (Optional)

Example Grafana alert rules you can add:

```yaml
# High queue depth
- alert: HighQueueDepth
  expr: (flower_events_total{type="task-received"} - flower_events_total{type="task-succeeded"} - flower_events_total{type="task-failed"}) > 50
  for: 10m
  labels:
    severity: warning
  annotations:
    summary: "Task queue depth is high"

# No workers online
- alert: NoWorkersOnline
  expr: flower_worker_online == 0
  for: 5m
  labels:
    severity: critical
  annotations:
    summary: "No Celery workers are online"

# High API error rate
- alert: HighAPIErrorRate
  expr: rate(http_requests_total{status=~"5.."}[5m]) / rate(http_requests_total[5m]) > 0.1
  for: 5m
  labels:
    severity: warning
  annotations:
    summary: "API error rate is above 10%"
```

## Troubleshooting

### SSH Connection Refused

1. Verify OpenSSH Server is running on Windows:
   ```powershell
   Get-Service sshd
   ```

2. Check Windows Firewall:
   ```powershell
   Get-NetFirewallRule -Name "OpenSSH-Server-In-TCP"
   ```

3. Test SSH directly:
   ```bash
   ssh user@windows-server
   ```

### Prometheus Targets Show "DOWN"

1. Check if tunnel is connected:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:8000/metrics
   ```

2. If connection refused, restart the tunnel

3. Verify containers are running on Windows:
   ```powershell
   docker ps
   ```

### No Metrics in Grafana

1. Check Prometheus targets: http://localhost:9090/targets
2. Verify datasource configuration in Grafana
3. Check time range - default is "Last 1 hour"

**Flower/Celery panels only:** Data flows Flower (Windows) → tunnel → Prometheus → Grafana. If the SSH tunnel is not running, the `flower` target will be DOWN and Celery panels will show no data. Start the tunnel first (`make tunnel` or `monitoring/tunnel.sh`), then ensure the **flower** job is UP in http://localhost:9090/targets. In the dashboard, use the **Data source** dropdown and select **Prometheus**.

### Worker logs: segment progress

To monitor transcription progress in the worker logs, tail the worker container. You’ll see segment tracking lines every few segments (1, 5, 10, 15, …):

```
Step 2: Transcribing audio...
Transcription progress: 0 segments (started)
Transcription progress: 1 segment
Transcription progress: 5 segments
Transcription progress: 10 segments
...
```

**From Mac (Ansible):**

```bash
cd ansible && export OBJC_DISABLE_INITIALIZE_FORK_SAFETY=YES
ansible windows -i inventory.ini -m ansible.windows.win_powershell -a "script=\"docker logs whisper-worker --tail=100 2>&1\""
```

**From Windows (SSH or RDP):** `docker logs whisper-worker --tail=100 -f` to follow.

### Flower: "Inspect method failed" / "Unknown worker"

Flower discovers workers by sending **inspect** commands over the broker. In Docker, workers can be slow to respond, so you may see:

- `Inspect method active_queues failed`, `registered failed`, `stats failed`, etc.
- **Registered tasks** showing only built-in Celery tasks (not `process_recording` / `enqueue_pending_recordings`) if workers weren’t ready at Flower startup.
- **404 Unknown worker 'celery@...'** when opening a worker link, because Flower never received that worker’s inspect response.

The Flower container is still **working**: it’s connected to Redis and can show the `/metrics` endpoint and task events. To improve worker discovery:

1. **Start Flower after the worker**  
   `docker-compose.yml` makes Flower depend on the worker (`depends_on: worker`), so the worker starts first.

2. **Give workers time to respond**  
   `FLOWER_INSPECT_TIMEOUT=60000` (60 seconds) is set so Flower waits longer for inspect replies. With a single worker, long-running transcription can block the process so it may not answer inspect in time.

3. **Inspect warnings when worker is busy**  
   If you see `Inspect method … failed` in Flower logs (e.g. `active`, `stats`, `registered`), it usually means the only worker is busy and did not reply within the timeout. Flower still works: task list, metrics, and events come from the broker. The Workers page may be empty or show 404 until the next successful inspect (e.g. when the worker finishes the task). Restarting Flower is not required.

After a redeploy, restart Flower so it runs inspect again once the worker is up:  
`docker compose restart flower`.

### Tunnel Keeps Disconnecting

Install and use `autossh` for automatic reconnection:

```bash
# Install
brew install autossh

# Run with auto-reconnect
autossh -M 0 -o "ServerAliveInterval 30" -o "ServerAliveCountMax 3" -N \
    -L 8000:localhost:8000 \
    -L 5555:localhost:5555 \
    -L 9187:localhost:9187 \
    -L 9121:localhost:9121 \
    user@windows-server
```

## Security Notes

1. **SSH Keys**: For unattended operation, set up SSH key authentication instead of passwords
2. **Firewall**: Only port 22 is exposed on Windows; all other ports remain localhost-only
3. **Grafana**: Change the default password after first login
4. **Flower**: Uses basic auth configured via `FLOWER_AUTH` environment variable

## File Locations

| Location | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| `monitoring/` | Mac-side monitoring stack |
| `monitoring/prometheus.yml` | Prometheus scrape configuration |
| `monitoring/provisioning/` | Grafana auto-provisioning |
| `docker-compose.yml` | Windows-side exporters (main compose) |
